---
url: "/naming_principles"
title: "Clean code naming principles"
date: 2022-01-06
tags: ["books", "programming"]
categories: ["Programming"]
---

## Use Intention-Revealing names.
 Name of variable, function, class, ... should tell you why it exists, what it does, and how it used. If a name requires a comment, then the name does not reveal its intent. 
	Bad example:
	```
	int d; // elapsed time in days
	```
	
	Good  example:
	```
	int elapsedTimeInDays;
	```

## Avoid disinformation
You should avoid words whose entrenched meanings vary from our intended meaning. Spelling similar concepts similarly is *information*. Using inconsistent spellings is *disinformation*.
- **Make meaningful distinctions.** Items with different names should mean different things. Numeric name is opposite of intentional naming. Such names are not disinformative - they are noninformative. 
	- **Don't use noise words.** For example if you have `Product` class, and `ProductData`, `ProductInfo` is example of indistinct names with noise words.

## Use pronounceable names.

## Use searchable names.
Longer names trump shorter names, and any searchable name trumps a constant in code. *The length of a name should correspond to the size of its scope.*

## Avoid encodings.
We have enough encodings to deal with without adding more to our burden. Encoding type or scope information into names simply adds an extra burden of deciphering.

## Avoid mental mapping 
Readers shouldn't have to mentally translate your names into other names they already know. This problem generally arises from a choice to use neither problem domain terms nor solution domain terms.

## Class names
Classes and objects should have noun or noun phrase names like `Customer`, `WikiPage`, `Manager`, etc.

## Method names
Methods should have verb or verb phrase names like `postPayment`, `deletePage`, `save`. When constructors areoverloaded, use static factory methods with names that describe the arguments. For example: 
```
Complex fulcrumPoint = Complex.FromRealNumber(23.0);
``` 
is generally better than
```
Complex fulcrumPoint = new Complex(23.0);
```
Consider enforcing their use by making corresponding constructors private.

## Don't be cute 
Say what you mean. Mean what you say.

## Pick one word per concept 
Pick one word for one abstract concept and stick with it. For instance it's confusing to have `fetch`, `retrieve`, `get` as equivalent methods of different classes.

## Use solution domain names 
Remember that the people who read your code will be programmers. So go ahead and use computer science terms, algorithm names, etc. There are lots of very technical things that programmers have to do. Choosing technical names for those things is usually the most appropriate course.

## Use problem domain names
Separating solution and problem domain concepts is part of the job of a good programmer and designer. The code that has more to do with problem domain concepts should have names drawn from the problem domain.
